Node:Top, Next:Introduction, Previous:(dir), Up:(dir)
#======= THIS IS THE JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.1, 29 JUN 2001 =======#
This is the Jargon File, a comprehensive compendium of hacker slang illuminating many aspects of hackish tradition,
folklore, and humor.
This document (the Jargon File) is in the public domain, to be freely used, shared, and modified. There are (by intention)
no legal restraints on what you can do with it, but there are traditions about its proper use to which many hackers are
quite strongly attached. Please extend the courtesy of proper citation when you quote the File, ideally with a version
number, as it will change and grow over time. (Examples of appropriate citation form: "Jargon File 4.3.1" or "The
on-line hacker Jargon File, version 4.3.1, 29 JUN 2001".)
The Jargon File is a common heritage of the hacker culture. Over the years a number of individuals have volunteered
considerable time to maintaining the File and been recognized by the net at large as editors of it. Editorial
responsibilities include: to collate contributions and suggestions from others; to seek out corroborating information; to
cross-reference related entries; to keep the file in a consistent format; and to announce and distribute updated versions
periodically. Current volunteer editors include:
Eric Raymond esr@snark.thyrsus.com
Although there is no requirement that you do so, it is considered good form to check with an editor before quoting the
File in a published work or commercial product. We may have additional information that would be helpful to you and
can assist you in framing your quote to reflect not only the letter of the File but its spirit as well.
All contributions and suggestions about this file sent to a volunteer editor are gratefully received and will be regarded,
unless otherwise labelled, as freely given donations for possible use as part of this public-domain file.
From time to time a snapshot of this file has been polished, edited, and formatted for commercial publication with the
cooperation of the volunteer editors and the hacker community at large. If you wish to have a bound paper copy of this
file, you may find it convenient to purchase one of these. They often contain additional material not found in on-line
versions. The two `authorized' editions so far are described in the Revision History section; there may be more in the
future.
Introduction: The purpose and scope of this File
A Few Terms: Of Slang, Jargon and Techspeak
Revision History: How the File came to be
Jargon Construction: How hackers invent jargon
Hacker Writing Style: How they write
Email Quotes: And the Inclusion Problem
Hacker Speech Style: How hackers talk
International Style: Some notes on usage outside the U.S.
Lamer-speak: Crackers, Phreaks, and Lamers
Pronunciation Guide: How to read the pronunciation keys
Other Lexicon Conventions: How to read lexicon entries
Format for New Entries: How to submit new entries for the File
The Jargon Lexicon: The lexicon itself
Appendix A: Hacker Folklore
Appendix B: A Portrait of J. Random Hacker
Appendix C: Helping Hacker Culture Grow
Bibliography: For your further enjoyment
Node:Introduction, Next:A Few Terms, Previous:Top, Up:Top
IntroductionThis document is a collection of slang terms used by various subcultures of computer hackers. Though some technical
material is included for background and flavor, it is not a technical dictionary; what we describe here is the language
hackers use among themselves for fun, social communication, and technical debate.
The `hacker culture' is actually a loosely networked collection of subcultures that is nevertheless conscious of some
important shared experiences, shared roots, and shared values. It has its own myths, heroes, villains, folk epics, in-jokes,
taboos, and dreams. Because hackers as a group are particularly creative people who define themselves partly by
rejection of `normal' values and working habits, it has unusually rich and conscious traditions for an intentional culture
less than 40 years old.
As usual with slang, the special vocabulary of hackers helps hold their culture together -- it helps hackers recognize each
other's places in the community and expresses shared values and experiences. Also as usual, not knowing the slang (or
using it inappropriately) defines one as an outsider, a mundane, or (worst of all in hackish vocabulary) possibly even a
suit. All human cultures use slang in this threefold way -- as a tool of communication, and of inclusion, and of exclusion.
Among hackers, though, slang has a subtler aspect, paralleled perhaps in the slang of jazz musicians and some kinds of
fine artists but hard to detect in most technical or scientific cultures; parts of it are code for shared states of
consciousness. There is a whole range of altered states and problem-solving mental stances basic to high-level hacking
which don't fit into conventional linguistic reality any better than a Coltrane solo or one of Maurits Escher's `trompe
l'oeil' compositions (Escher is a favorite of hackers), and hacker slang encodes these subtleties in many unobvious ways.
As a simple example, take the distinction between a kluge and an elegant solution, and the differing connotations
attached to each. The distinction is not only of engineering significance; it reaches right back into the nature of the
generative processes in program design and asserts something important about two different kinds of relationship
between the hacker and the hack. Hacker slang is unusually rich in implications of this kind, of overtones and undertones
that illuminate the hackish psyche.
But there is more. Hackers, as a rule, love wordplay and are very conscious and inventive in their use of language. These
traits seem to be common in young children, but the conformity-enforcing machine we are pleased to call an educational
system bludgeons them out of most of us before adolescence. Thus, linguistic invention in most subcultures of the
modern West is a halting and largely unconscious process. Hackers, by contrast, regard slang formation and use as a
game to be played for conscious pleasure. Their inventions thus display an almost unique combination of the neotenous
enjoyment of language-play with the discrimination of educated and powerful intelligence. Further, the electronic media
which knit them together are fluid, `hot' connections, well adapted to both the dissemination of new slang and the
ruthless culling of weak and superannuated specimens. The results of this process give us perhaps a uniquely intense and
accelerated view of linguistic evolution in action.
Hacker slang also challenges some common linguistic and anthropological assumptions. For example, it has recently
become fashionable to speak of `low-context' versus `high-context' communication, and to classify cultures by the
preferred context level of their languages and art forms. It is usually claimed that low-context communication
(characterized by precision, clarity, and completeness of self-contained utterances) is typical in cultures which value
logic, objectivity, individualism, and competition; by contrast, high-context communication (elliptical, emotive,
nuance-filled, multi-modal, heavily coded) is associated with cultures which value subjectivity, consensus, cooperation,
and tradition. What then are we to make of hackerdom, which is themed around extremely low-context interaction with
computers and exhibits primarily "low-context" values, but cultivates an almost absurdly high-context slang style?
The intensity and consciousness of hackish invention make a compilation of hacker slang a particularly effective
window into the surrounding culture -- and, in fact, this one is the latest version of an evolving compilation called the
`Jargon File', maintained by hackers themselves since the early 1970s. This one (like its ancestors) is primarily a lexicon,
but also includes topic entries which collect background or sidelight information on hacker culture that would be
awkward to try to subsume under individual slang definitions.
Though the format is that of a reference volume, it is intended that the material be enjoyable to browse. Even a complete
outsider should find at least a chuckle on nearly every page, and much that is amusingly thought-provoking. But it is also
true that hackers use humorous wordplay to make strong, sometimes combative statements about what they feel. Some of
these entries reflect the views of opposing sides in disputes that have been genuinely passionate; this is deliberate. We
have not tried to moderate or pretty up these disputes; rather we have attempted to ensure that everyone's sacred cows
get gored, impartially. Compromise is not particularly a hackish virtue, but the honest presentation of divergent
viewpoints is.
The reader with minimal computer background who finds some references incomprehensibly technical can safely ignore
them. We have not felt it either necessary or desirable to eliminate all such; they, too, contribute flavor, and one of thisdocument's major intended audiences -- fledgling hackers already partway inside the culture -- will benefit from them.
A selection of longer items of hacker folklore and humor is included in Appendix A. The `outside' reader's attention is
particularly directed to the Portrait of J. Random Hacker in Appendix B. Appendix C, the Bibliography, lists some
non-technical works which have either influenced or described the hacker culture.
Because hackerdom is an intentional culture (one each individual must choose by action to join), one should not be
surprised that the line between description and influence can become more than a little blurred. Earlier versions of the
Jargon File have played a central role in spreading hacker language and the culture that goes with it to successively
larger populations, and we hope and expect that this one will do likewise.
Node:A Few Terms, Next:Revision History, Previous:Introduction, Up:Top
Of Slang, Jargon, and Techspeak
Linguists usually refer to informal language as `slang' and reserve the term `jargon' for the technical vocabularies of
various occupations. However, the ancestor of this collection was called the `Jargon File', and hacker slang is
traditionally `the jargon'. When talking about the jargon there is therefore no convenient way to distinguish it from what
a linguist would call hackers' jargon -- the formal vocabulary they learn from textbooks, technical papers, and manuals.
To make a confused situation worse, the line between hacker slang and the vocabulary of technical programming and
computer science is fuzzy, and shifts over time. Further, this vocabulary is shared with a wider technical culture of
programmers, many of whom are not hackers and do not speak or recognize hackish slang.
Accordingly, this lexicon will try to be as precise as the facts of usage permit about the distinctions among three
categories:
`slang': informal language from mainstream English or non-technical subcultures (bikers, rock fans, surfers, etc).
`jargon': without qualifier, denotes informal `slangy' language peculiar to or predominantly found among hackers
-- the subject of this lexicon.
`techspeak': the formal technical vocabulary of programming, computer science, electronics, and other fields
connected to hacking.
This terminology will be consistently used throughout the remainder of this lexicon.
The jargon/techspeak distinction is the delicate one. A lot of techspeak originated as jargon, and there is a steady
continuing uptake of jargon into techspeak. On the other hand, a lot of jargon arises from overgeneralization of
techspeak terms (there is more about this in the Jargon Construction section below).
In general, we have considered techspeak any term that communicates primarily by a denotation well established in
textbooks, technical dictionaries, or standards documents.
A few obviously techspeak terms (names of operating systems, languages, or documents) are listed when they are tied to
hacker folklore that isn't covered in formal sources, or sometimes to convey critical historical background necessary to
understand other entries to which they are cross-referenced. Some other techspeak senses of jargon words are listed in
order to make the jargon senses clear; where the text does not specify that a straight technical sense is under discussion,
these are marked with `[techspeak]' as an etymology. Some entries have a primary sense marked this way, with
subsequent jargon meanings explained in terms of it.
We have also tried to indicate (where known) the apparent origins of terms. The results are probably the least reliable
information in the lexicon, for several reasons. For one thing, it is well known that many hackish usages have been
independently reinvented multiple times, even among the more obscure and intricate neologisms. It often seems that the
generative processes underlying hackish jargon formation have an internal logic so powerful as to create substantial
parallelism across separate cultures and even in different languages! For another, the networks tend to propagate
innovations so quickly that `first use' is often impossible to pin down. And, finally, compendia like this one alter what
they observe by implicitly stamping cultural approval on terms and widening their use.
Despite these problems, the organized collection of jargon-related oral history for the new compilations has enabled us
to put to rest quite a number of folk etymologies, place credit where credit is due, and illuminate the early history of
many important hackerisms such as kluge, cruft, and foo. We believe specialist lexicographers will find many of thehistorical notes more than casually instructive.
Node:Revision History, Next:Jargon Construction, Previous:A Few Terms, Up:Top
Revision History
The original Jargon File was a collection of hacker jargon from technical cultures including the MIT AI Lab, the
Stanford AI lab (SAIL), and others of the old ARPANET AI/LISP/PDP-10 communities including Bolt, Beranek and
Newman (BBN), Carnegie-Mellon University (CMU), and Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI).
The Jargon File (hereafter referred to as `jargon-1' or `the File') was begun by Raphael Finkel at Stanford in 1975. From
this time until the plug was finally pulled on the SAIL computer in 1991, the File was named AIWORD.RF[UP,DOC]
there. Some terms in it date back considerably earlier (frob and some senses of moby, for instance, go back to the Tech
Model Railroad Club at MIT and are believed to date at least back to the early 1960s). The revisions of jargon-1 were all
unnumbered and may be collectively considered `Version 1'.
In 1976, Mark Crispin, having seen an announcement about the File on the SAIL computer, FTPed a copy of the File to
MIT. He noticed that it was hardly restricted to `AI words' and so stored the file on his directory as AI:MRC;SAIL
JARGON.
The file was quickly renamed JARGON > (the `>' caused versioning under ITS) as a flurry of enhancements were made
by Mark Crispin and Guy L. Steele Jr. Unfortunately, amidst all this activity, nobody thought of correcting the term
`jargon' to `slang' until the compendium had already become widely known as the Jargon File.
Raphael Finkel dropped out of active participation shortly thereafter and Don Woods became the SAIL contact for the
File (which was subsequently kept in duplicate at SAIL and MIT, with periodic resynchronizations).
The File expanded by fits and starts until about 1983; Richard Stallman was prominent among the contributors, adding
many MIT and ITS-related coinages.
In Spring 1981, a hacker named Charles Spurgeon got a large chunk of the File published in Stewart Brand's
"CoEvolution Quarterly" (issue 29, pages 26-35) with illustrations by Phil Wadler and Guy Steele (including a couple of
the Crunchly cartoons). This appears to have been the File's first paper publication.
A late version of jargon-1, expanded with commentary for the mass market, was edited by Guy Steele into a book
published in 1983 as "The Hacker's Dictionary" (Harper & Row CN 1082, ISBN 0-06-091082-8). The other jargon-1
editors (Raphael Finkel, Don Woods, and Mark Crispin) contributed to this revision, as did Richard M. Stallman and
Geoff Goodfellow. This book (now out of print) is hereafter referred to as `Steele-1983' and those six as the Steele-1983
coauthors.
Shortly after the publication of Steele-1983, the File effectively stopped growing and changing. Originally, this was due
to a desire to freeze the file temporarily to facilitate the production of Steele-1983, but external conditions caused the
`temporary' freeze to become permanent.
The AI Lab culture had been hit hard in the late 1970s by funding cuts and the resulting administrative decision to use
vendor-supported hardware and software instead of homebrew whenever possible. At MIT, most AI work had turned to
dedicated LISP Machines. At the same time, the commercialization of AI technology lured some of the AI Lab's best and
brightest away to startups along the Route 128 strip in Massachusetts and out West in Silicon Valley. The startups built
LISP machines for MIT; the central MIT-AI computer became a TWENEX system rather than a host for the AI hackers'
beloved ITS.
The Stanford AI Lab had effectively ceased to exist by 1980, although the SAIL computer continued as a Computer
Science Department resource until 1991. Stanford became a major TWENEX site, at one point operating more than a
dozen TOPS-20 systems; but by the mid-1980s most of the interesting software work was being done on the emerging
BSD Unix standard.
In April 1983, the PDP-10-centered cultures that had nourished the File were dealt a death-blow by the cancellation of
the Jupiter project at Digital Equipment Corporation. The File's compilers, already dispersed, moved on to other things.
Steele-1983 was partly a monument to what its authors thought was a dying tradition; no one involved realized at the
time just how wide its influence was to be.By the mid-1980s the File's content was dated, but the legend that had grown up around it never quite died out. The
book, and softcopies obtained off the ARPANET, circulated even in cultures far removed from MIT and Stanford; the
content exerted a strong and continuing influence on hacker language and humor. Even as the advent of the
microcomputer and other trends fueled a tremendous expansion of hackerdom, the File (and related materials such as the
Some AI Koans in Appendix A) came to be seen as a sort of sacred epic, a hacker-culture Matter of Britain chronicling
the heroic exploits of the Knights of the Lab. The pace of change in hackerdom at large accelerated tremendously -- but
the Jargon File, having passed from living document to icon, remained essentially untouched for seven years.
This revision contains nearly the entire text of a late version of jargon-1 (a few obsolete PDP-10-related entries were
dropped after careful consultation with the editors of Steele-1983). It merges in about 80% of the Steele-1983 text,
omitting some framing material and a very few entries introduced in Steele-1983 that are now also obsolete.
This new version casts a wider net than the old Jargon File; its aim is to cover not just AI or PDP-10 hacker culture but
all the technical computing cultures wherein the true hacker-nature is manifested. More than half of the entries now
derive from Usenet and represent jargon now current in the C and Unix communities, but special efforts have been made
to collect jargon from other cultures including IBM PC programmers, Amiga fans, Mac enthusiasts, and even the IBM
mainframe world.
Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com> maintains the new File with assistance from Guy L. Steele Jr.
<gls@think.com>; these are the persons primarily reflected in the File's editorial `we', though we take pleasure in
acknowledging the special contribution of the other coauthors of Steele-1983. Please email all additions, corrections, and
correspondence relating to the Jargon File to jargon@thyrsus.com.
(Warning: other email addresses appear in this file but are not guaranteed to be correct later than the revision date on
the first line. Don't email us if an attempt to reach your idol bounces -- we have no magic way of checking addresses or
looking up people.)
The 2.9.6 version became the main text of "The New Hacker's Dictionary", by Eric Raymond (ed.), MIT Press 1991,
ISBN 0-262-68069-6.
The 3.0.0 version was published in September 1993 as the second edition of "The New Hacker's Dictionary", again from
MIT Press (ISBN 0-262-18154-1).
If you want the book, you should be able to find it at any of the major bookstore chains. Failing that, you can order by
mail from
The MIT Press 55 Hayward Street Cambridge, MA 02142
or order by phone at (800)-356-0343 or (617)-625-8481.
The maintainers are committed to updating the on-line version of the Jargon File through and beyond paper publication,
and will continue to make it available to archives and public-access sites as a trust of the hacker community.
Here is a chronology of the high points in the recent on-line revisions:
Version 2.1.1, Jun 12 1990: the Jargon File comes alive again after a seven-year hiatus. Reorganization and massive
additions were by Eric S. Raymond, approved by Guy Steele. Many items of UNIX, C, USENET, and
microcomputer-based jargon were added at that time.
Version 2.9.6, Aug 16 1991: corresponds to reproduction copy for book. This version had 18952 lines, 148629 words,
975551 characters, and 1702 entries.
Version 2.9.7, Oct 28 1991: first markup for hypertext browser. This version had 19432 lines, 152132 words, 999595
characters, and 1750 entries.
Version 2.9.8, Jan 01 1992: first public release since the book, including over fifty new entries and numerous
corrections/additions to old ones. Packaged with version 1.1 of vh(1) hypertext reader. This version had 19509 lines,
153108 words, 1006023 characters, and 1760 entries.
Version 2.9.9, Apr 01 1992: folded in XEROX PARC lexicon. This version had 20298 lines, 159651 words, 1048909
characters, and 1821 entries.Version 2.9.10, Jul 01 1992: lots of new historical material. This version had 21349 lines, 168330 words, 1106991
characters, and 1891 entries.
Version 2.9.11, Jan 01 1993: lots of new historical material. This version had 21725 lines, 171169 words, 1125880
characters, and 1922 entries.
Version 2.9.12, May 10 1993: a few new entries & changes, marginal MUD/IRC slang and some borderline techspeak
removed, all in preparation for 2nd Edition of TNHD. This version had 22238 lines, 175114 words, 1152467 characters,
and 1946 entries.
Version 3.0.0, Jul 27 1993: manuscript freeze for 2nd edition of TNHD. This version had 22548 lines, 177520 words,
1169372 characters, and 1961 entries.
Version 3.1.0, Oct 15 1994: interim release to test WWW conversion. This version had 23197 lines, 181001 words,
1193818 characters, and 1990 entries.
Version 3.2.0, Mar 15 1995: Spring 1995 update. This version had 23822 lines, 185961 words, 1226358 characters, and
2031 entries.
Version 3.3.0, Jan 20 1996: Winter 1996 update. This version had 24055 lines, 187957 words, 1239604 characters, and
2045 entries.
Version 3.3.1, Jan 25 1996: Copy-corrected improvement on 3.3.0 shipped to MIT Press as a step towards TNHD III.
This version had 24147 lines, 188728 words, 1244554 characters, and 2050 entries.
Version 3.3.2, Mar 20 1996: A number of new entries pursuant on 3.3.2. This version had 24442 lines, 190867 words,
1262468 characters, and 2061 entries.
Version 3.3.3, Mar 25 1996: Cleanup before TNHD III manuscript freeze. This version had 24584 lines, 191932 words,
1269996 characters, and 2064 entries.
Version 4.0.0, Jul 25 1996: The actual TNHD III version after copy-edit. This version had 24801 lines, 193697 words,
1281402 characters, and 2067 entries.
Version 4.1.0, 8 Apr 1999: The Jargon File rides again after three years. This version had 25777 lines, 206825 words,
1359992 characters, and 2217 entries.
Version 4.1.1, 18 Apr 1999: Corrections for minor errors in 4.1.0, and some new entries. This version had 25921 lines,
208483 words, 1371279 characters, and 2225 entries.
Version 4.1.2, 28 Apr 1999: Moving texi2html out of the production path. This version had 26006 lines, 209479 words,
1377687 characters, and 2225 entries.
Version 4.1.3, 14 Jun 1999: Minor updates and markup fixes. This version had 26108 lines, 210480 words, 1384546
characters, and 2234 entries.
Version 4.1.4, 17 Jun 1999: Markup fixes for framed HTML. This version had 26117 lines, 210527 words, 1384902
characters, and 2234 entries.
Version 4.2.0, 31 Jan 2000: Fix processing of URLs. This version had 26598 lines, 214639 words, 1412243 characters,
and 2267 entries.
Version 4.2.1, 5 Mar 2000: Point release to test new production machinery. This version had 26647 lines, 215040 words,
1414942 characters, and 2269 entries.
Version 4.2.2, 12 Aug 2000: This version had 27171 lines, 219630 words, 1444887 characters, and 2302 entries.
Version 4.2.3, 23 Nov 2000: This version had 27452 lines, 222085 words, 1460972 characters, and 2318 entries.
Version 4.3.0, 30 Apr 2001: Special edition in honor of the first implementation of RFC 1149. Also cleaned up a number
of obsolete entries. This version had 27805 lines, 224978 words, 1480215 characters, and 2319 entries.
Version 4.3.1, 29 Jun 2001: This version had 27862 lines, 225517 words, 1483664 characters, and 2321 entries.Version numbering: Version numbers should be read as major.minor.revision. Major version 1 is reserved for the `old'
(ITS) Jargon File, jargon-1. Major version 2 encompasses revisions by ESR (Eric S. Raymond) with assistance from
GLS (Guy L. Steele, Jr.) leading up to and including the second paper edition. From now on, major version number N.00
will probably correspond to the Nth paper edition. Usually later versions will either completely supersede or incorporate
earlier versions, so there is generally no point in keeping old versions around.
Our thanks to the coauthors of Steele-1983 for oversight and assistance, and to the hundreds of Usenetters (too many to
name here) who contributed entries and encouragement. More thanks go to several of the old-timers on the Usenet group
alt.folklore.computers, who contributed much useful commentary and many corrections and valuable historical
perspective: Joseph M. Newcomer <jn11+@andrew.cmu.edu>, Bernie Cosell <cosell@bbn.com>, Earl Boebert
<boebert@SCTC.com>, and Joe Morris <jcmorris@mwunix.mitre.org>.
We were fortunate enough to have the aid of some accomplished linguists. David Stampe <stampe@hawaii.edu> and
Charles Hoequist <hoequist@bnr.ca> contributed valuable criticism; Joe Keane <jgk@osc.osc.com> helped us improve
the pronunciation guides.
A few bits of this text quote previous works. We are indebted to Brian A. LaMacchia <bal@zurich.ai.mit.edu> for
obtaining permission for us to use material from the "TMRC Dictionary"; also, Don Libes <libes@cme.nist.gov>
contributed some appropriate material from his excellent book "Life With UNIX". We thank Per Lindberg
<per@front.se>, author of the remarkable Swedish-language 'zine "Hackerbladet", for bringing "FOO!" comics to our
attention and smuggling one of the IBM hacker underground's own baby jargon files out to us. Thanks also to Maarten
Litmaath for generously allowing the inclusion of the ASCII pronunciation guide he formerly maintained. And our
gratitude to Marc Weiser of XEROX PARC <Marc_Weiser.PARC@xerox.com> for securing us permission to quote
from PARC's own jargon lexicon and shipping us a copy.
It is a particular pleasure to acknowledge the major contributions of Mark Brader and Steve Summit <scs@eskimo.com>
to the File and Dictionary; they have read and reread many drafts, checked facts, caught typos, submitted an amazing
number of thoughtful comments, and done yeoman service in catching typos and minor usage bobbles. Their rare
combination of enthusiasm, persistence, wide-ranging technical knowledge, and precisionism in matters of language has
been of invaluable help. Indeed, the sustained volume and quality of Mr. Brader's input over several years and several
different editions has only allowed him to escape co-editor credit by the slimmest of margins.
Finally, George V. Reilly <georgere@microsoft.com> helped with TeX arcana and painstakingly proofread some 2.7
and 2.8 versions, and Eric Tiedemann <est@thyrsus.com> contributed sage advice throughout on rhetoric, amphigory,
and philosophunculism.
Node:Jargon Construction, Next:Hacker Writing Style, Previous:Revision History, Up:Top
How Jargon Works
Jargon Construction
There are some standard methods of jargonification that became established quite early (i.e., before 1970), spreading
from such sources as the Tech Model Railroad Club, the PDP-1 SPACEWAR hackers, and John McCarthy's original
crew of LISPers. These include verb doubling, soundalike slang, the `-P' convention, overgeneralization, spoken
inarticulations, and anthropomorphization. Each is discussed below. We also cover the standard comparatives for design
quality.
Of these six, verb doubling, overgeneralization, anthropomorphization, and (especially) spoken inarticulations have
become quite general; but soundalike slang is still largely confined to MIT and other large universities, and the `-P'
convention is found only where LISPers flourish.
Verb Doubling: Doubling a verb may change its semantics
Soundalike Slang: Punning jargon
The -P convention: A LISPy way to form questions
Overgeneralization: Standard abuses of grammar
Spoken Inarticulations: Sighing and <*sigh*>ing
Anthropomorphization: Homunculi, daemons, and confused programsComparatives: Standard comparatives for design quality
Node:Verb Doubling, Next:Soundalike Slang, Up:Jargon Construction
Verb Doubling
A standard construction in English is to double a verb and use it as an exclamation, such as "Bang, bang!" or "Quack,
quack!". Most of these are names for noises. Hackers also double verbs as a concise, sometimes sarcastic comment on
what the implied subject does. Also, a doubled verb is often used to terminate a conversation, in the process remarking
on the current state of affairs or what the speaker intends to do next. Typical examples involve win, lose, hack, flame,
barf, chomp:
"The disk heads just crashed." "Lose, lose."
"Mostly he talked about his latest crock. Flame, flame."
"Boy, what a bagbiter! Chomp, chomp!"
Some verb-doubled constructions have special meanings not immediately obvious from the verb. These have their own
listings in the lexicon.
The Usenet culture has one tripling convention unrelated to this; the names of `joke' topic groups often have a tripled
last element. The first and paradigmatic example was alt.swedish.chef.bork.bork.bork (a "Muppet Show" reference);
other infamous examples have included:
alt.french.captain.borg.borg.borg
alt.wesley.crusher.die.die.die
comp.unix.internals.system.calls.brk.brk.brk
sci.physics.edward.teller.boom.boom.boom
alt.sadistic.dentists.drill.drill.drill
These two traditions fuse in the newsgroup alt.adjective.noun.verb.verb.verb, devoted to humor based on deliberately
confounding parts of speech. Several observers have noted that the contents of this group is excellently representative of
the peculiarities of hacker humor.
Node:Soundalike Slang, Next:The -P convention, Previous:Verb Doubling, Up:Jargon Construction
Soundalike slang
Hackers will often make rhymes or puns in order to convert an ordinary word or phrase into something more interesting.
It is considered particularly flavorful if the phrase is bent so as to include some other jargon word; thus the computer
hobbyist magazine "Dr. Dobb's Journal" is almost always referred to among hackers as `Dr. Frob's Journal' or simply
`Dr. Frob's'. Terms of this kind that have been in fairly wide use include names for newspapers:
Boston Herald => Horrid (or Harried)
Boston Globe => Boston Glob
Houston (or San Francisco) Chronicle
=> the Crocknicle (or the Comical)
New York Times => New York Slime
Wall Street Journal => Wall Street Urinal
However, terms like these are often made up on the spur of the moment. Standard examples include:
Data General => Dirty Genitals
IBM 360 => IBM Three-Sickly
Government Property --- Do Not Duplicate (on keys)
=> Government Duplicity --- Do Not Propagate
for historical reasons => for hysterical raisins
Margaret Jacks Hall (the CS building at Stanford)
=> Marginal Hacks Hall
Microsoft => Microsloth
Internet Explorer => Internet Exploiter
This is not really similar to the Cockney rhyming slang it has been compared to in the past, because Cockney
substitutions are opaque whereas hacker punning jargon is intentionally transparent.Node:The -P convention, Next:Overgeneralization, Previous:Soundalike Slang, Up:Jargon Construction
The `-P' convention
Turning a word into a question by appending the syllable `P'; from the LISP convention of appending the letter `P' to
denote a predicate (a boolean-valued function). The question should expect a yes/no answer, though it needn't. (See T
and NIL.)
At dinnertime:
Q: ``Foodp?''
A: ``Yeah, I'm pretty hungry.'' or ``T!''
At any time:
Q: ``State-of-the-world-P?''
A: (Straight) ``I'm about to go home.''
A: (Humorous) ``Yes, the world has a state.''
On the phone to Florida:
Q: ``State-p Florida?''
A: ``Been reading JARGON.TXT again, eh?''
[One of the best of these is a Gosperism. Once, when we were at a Chinese restaurant, Bill Gosper wanted to know
whether someone would like to share with him a two-person-sized bowl of soup. His inquiry was: "Split-p soup?" --
GLS]
Node:Overgeneralization, Next:Spoken Inarticulations, Previous:The -P convention, Up:Jargon Construction
Overgeneralization
A very conspicuous feature of jargon is the frequency with which techspeak items such as names of program tools,
command language primitives, and even assembler opcodes are applied to contexts outside of computing wherever
hackers find amusing analogies to them. Thus (to cite one of the best-known examples) Unix hackers often grep for
things rather than searching for them. Many of the lexicon entries are generalizations of exactly this kind.
Hackers enjoy overgeneralization on the grammatical level as well. Many hackers love to take various words and add the
wrong endings to them to make nouns and verbs, often by extending a standard rule to nonuniform cases (or vice versa).
For example, because
porous => porosity
generous => generosity
hackers happily generalize:
mysterious => mysteriosity
ferrous => ferrosity
obvious => obviosity
dubious => dubiosity
Another class of common construction uses the suffix `-itude' to abstract a quality from just about any adjective or noun.
This usage arises especially in cases where mainstream English would perform the same abstraction through `-iness' or
`-ingness'. Thus:
win => winnitude (a common exclamation)
loss => lossitude
cruft => cruftitude
lame => lameitudeSome hackers cheerfully reverse this transformation; they argue, for example, that the horizontal degree lines on a globe
ought to be called `lats' -- after all, they're measuring latitude!
Also, note that all nouns can be verbed. E.g.: "All nouns can be verbed", "I'll mouse it up", "Hang on while I clipboard it
over", "I'm grepping the files". English as a whole is already heading in this direction (towards pure-positional grammar
like Chinese); hackers are simply a bit ahead of the curve.
The suffix "-full" can also be applied in generalized and fanciful ways, as in "As soon as you have more than one
cachefull of data, the system starts thrashing," or "As soon as I have more than one headfull of ideas, I start writing it all
down." A common use is "screenfull", meaning the amount of text that will fit on one screen, usually in text mode where
you have no choice as to character size. Another common form is "bufferfull".
However, hackers avoid the unimaginative verb-making techniques characteristic of marketroids, bean-counters, and the
Pentagon; a hacker would never, for example, `productize', `prioritize', or `securitize' things. Hackers have a strong
aversion to bureaucratic bafflegab and regard those who use it with contempt.
Similarly, all verbs can be nouned. This is only a slight overgeneralization in modern English; in hackish, however, it is
good form to mark them in some standard nonstandard way. Thus:
win => winnitude, winnage
disgust => disgustitude
hack => hackification
Further, note the prevalence of certain kinds of nonstandard plural forms. Some of these go back quite a ways; the
TMRC Dictionary includes an entry which implies that the plural of `mouse' is meeces, and notes that the defined plural
of `caboose' is `cabeese'. This latter has apparently been standard (or at least a standard joke) among railfans (railroad
enthusiasts) for many years.
On a similarly Anglo-Saxon note, almost anything ending in `x' may form plurals in `-xen' (see VAXen and boxen in the
main text). Even words ending in phonetic /k/ alone are sometimes treated this way; e.g., `soxen' for a bunch of socks.
Other funny plurals are the Hebrew-style `frobbotzim' for the plural of `frobbozz' (see frobnitz) and `Unices' and
`Twenices' (rather than `Unixes' and `Twenexes'; see Unix, TWENEX in main text). But note that `Twenexen' was
never used, and `Unixen' was not sighted in the wild until the year 2000, thirty years after it might logically have come
into use; it has been suggested that this is because `-ix' and `-ex' are Latin singular endings that attract a Latinate plural.
Finally, it has been suggested to general approval that the plural of `mongoose' ought to be `polygoose'.
The pattern here, as with other hackish grammatical quirks, is generalization of an inflectional rule that in English is
either an import or a fossil (such as the Hebrew plural ending `-im', or the Anglo-Saxon plural suffix `-en') to cases
where it isn't normally considered to apply.
This is not `poor grammar', as hackers are generally quite well aware of what they are doing when they distort the
language. It is grammatical creativity, a form of playfulness. It is done not to impress but to amuse, and never at the
expense of clarity.
Node:Spoken Inarticulations, Next:Anthropomorphization, Previous:Overgeneralization, Up:Jargon Construction
Spoken inarticulations
Words such as `mumble', `sigh', and `groan' are spoken in places where their referent might more naturally be used. It
has been suggested that this usage derives from the impossibility of representing such noises on a comm link or in
electronic mail, MUDs, and IRC channels (interestingly, the same sorts of constructions have been showing up with
increasing frequency in comic strips). Another expression sometimes heard is "Complain!", meaning "I have a
complaint!"
Node:Anthropomorphization, Next:Comparatives, Previous:Spoken Inarticulations, Up:Jargon Construction
Anthropomorphization
Semantically, one rich source of jargon constructions is the hackish tendency to anthropomorphize hardware and
software. English purists and academic computer scientists frequently look down on others for anthropomorphizinghardware and software, considering this sort of behavior to be characteristic of naive misunderstanding. But most
hackers anthropomorphize freely, frequently describing program behavior in terms of wants and desires.
Thus it is common to hear hardware or software talked about as though it has homunculi talking to each other inside it,
with intentions and desires. Thus, one hears "The protocol handler got confused", or that programs "are trying" to do
things, or one may say of a routine that "its goal in life is to X". Or: "You can't run those two cards on the same bus; they
fight over interrupt 9."
One even hears explanations like "... and its poor little brain couldn't understand X, and it died." Sometimes modelling
things this way actually seems to make them easier to understand, perhaps because it's instinctively natural to think of
anything with a really complex behavioral repertoire as `like a person' rather than `like a thing'.
At first glance, to anyone who understands how these programs actually work, this seems like an absurdity. As hackers
are among the people who know best how these phenomena work, it seems odd that they would use language that seems
to ascribe conciousness to them. The mind-set behind this tendency thus demands examination.
The key to understanding this kind of usage is that it isn't done in a naive way; hackers don't personalize their stuff in the
sense of feeling empathy with it, nor do they mystically believe that the things they work on every day are `alive'. To the
contrary: hackers who anthropomorphize are expressing not a vitalistic view of program behavior but a mechanistic view
of human behavior.
Almost all hackers subscribe to the mechanistic, materialistic ontology of science (this is in practice true even of most of
the minority with contrary religious theories). In this view, people are biological machines - consciousness is an
interesting and valuable epiphenomenon, but mind is implemented in machinery which is not fundamentally different in
information-processing capacity from computers.
Hackers tend to take this a step further and argue that the difference between a substrate of CHON atoms and water and
a substrate of silicon and metal is a relatively unimportant one; what matters, what makes a thing `alive', is information
and richness of pattern. This is animism from the flip side; it implies that humans and computers and dolphins and rocks
are all machines exhibiting a continuum of modes of `consciousness' according to their information-processing capacity.
Because hackers accept that a human machine can have intentions, it is therefore easy for them to ascribe consciousness
and intention to complex patterned systems such as computers. If consciousness is mechanical, it is neither more or less
absurd to say that "The program wants to go into an infinite loop" than it is to say that "I want to go eat some chocolate"
- and even defensible to say that "The stone, once dropped, wants to move towards the center of the earth".
This viewpoint has respectable company in academic philosophy. Daniel Dennett organizes explanations of behavior
using three stances: the "physical stance" (thing-to-be-explained as a physical object), the "design stance"
(thing-to-be-explained as an artifact), and the "intentional stance" (thing-to-be-explained as an agent with desires and
intentions). Which stances are appropriate is a matter not of truth but of utility. Hackers typically view simple programs
from the design stance, but more complex ones are often modelled using the intentional stance.
It has also been argued that the anthropomorphization of software and hardware reflects a blurring of the boundary
between the programmer and his artifacts - the human qualities belong to the programmer and the code merely expresses
these qualities as his/her proxy. On this view, a hacker saying a piece of code 'got confused' is really saying that he (or
she) was confused about exactly what he wanted the computer to do, the code naturally incorporated this confusion, and
the code expressed the programmer's confusion when executed by crashing or otherwise misbehaving.
Note that by displacing from "I got confused" to "It got confused", the programmer is not avoiding responsibility, but
rather getting some analytical distance in order to be able to consider the bug dispassionately.
Both explanations accurately model hacker psychology, and should be considered complementary rather than competing.
Node:Comparatives, Previous:Anthropomorphization, Up:Jargon Construction
Comparatives
Finally, note that many words in hacker jargon have to be understood as members of sets of comparatives. This is
especially true of the adjectives and nouns used to describe the beauty and functional quality of code. Here is an
approximately correct spectrum:monstrosity brain-damage screw bug lose misfeature
crock kluge hack win feature elegance perfection
The last is spoken of as a mythical absolute, approximated but never actually attained. Another similar scale is used for
describing the reliability of software:
broken flaky dodgy fragile brittle
solid robust bulletproof armor-plated
Note, however, that `dodgy' is primarily Commonwealth Hackish (it is rare in the U.S.) and may change places with
`flaky' for some speakers.
Coinages for describing lossage seem to call forth the very finest in hackish linguistic inventiveness; it has been truly
said that hackers have even more words for equipment failures than Yiddish has for obnoxious people.
Node:Hacker Writing Style, Next:Email Quotes, Previous:Jargon Construction, Up:Top
Hacker Writing Style
We've already seen that hackers often coin jargon by overgeneralizing grammatical rules. This is one aspect of a more
general fondness for form-versus-content language jokes that shows up particularly in hackish writing. One
correspondent reports that he consistently misspells `wrong' as `worng'. Others have been known to criticize glitches in
Jargon File drafts by observing (in the mode of Douglas Hofstadter) "This sentence no verb", or "Too repetetetive", or
"Bad speling", or "Incorrectspa cing." Similarly, intentional spoonerisms are often made of phrases relating to confusion
or things that are confusing; `dain bramage' for `brain damage' is perhaps the most common (similarly, a hacker would
be likely to write "Excuse me, I'm cixelsyd today", rather than "I'm dyslexic today"). This sort of thing is quite common
and is enjoyed by all concerned.
Hackers tend to use quotes as balanced delimiters like parentheses, much to the dismay of American editors. Thus, if
"Jim is going" is a phrase, and so are "Bill runs" and "Spock groks", then hackers generally prefer to write: "Jim is
going", "Bill runs", and "Spock groks". This is incorrect according to standard American usage (which would put the
continuation commas and the final period inside the string quotes); however, it is counter-intuitive to hackers to mutilate
literal strings with characters that don't belong in them. Given the sorts of examples that can come up in discussions of
programming, American-style quoting can even be grossly misleading. When communicating command lines or small
pieces of code, extra characters can be a real pain in the neck.
Consider, for example, a sentence in a vi tutorial that looks like this:
Then delete a line from the file by typing "dd".
Standard usage would make this
Then delete a line from the file by typing "dd."
but that would be very bad -- because the reader would be prone to type the string d-d-dot, and it happens that in vi(1)
dot repeats the last command accepted. The net result would be to delete two lines!
The Jargon File follows hackish usage throughout.
Interestingly, a similar style is now preferred practice in Great Britain, though the older style (which became established
for typographical reasons having to do with the aesthetics of comma and quotes in typeset text) is still accepted there.
"Hart's Rules" and the "Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors" call the hacker-like style `new' or `logical' quoting.
This returns British English to the style many other languages (including Spanish, French, Italian, Catalan, and German)
have been using all along.
Another hacker habit is a tendency to distinguish between `scare' quotes and `speech' quotes; that is, to use British-style
single quotes for marking and reserve American-style double quotes for actual reports of speech or text included from
elsewhere. Interestingly, some authorities describe this as correct general usage, but mainstream American English has
gone to using double-quotes indiscriminately enough that hacker usage appears marked [and, in fact, I thought this was a
personal quirk of mine until I checked with Usenet --ESR]. One further permutation that is definitely not standard is ahackish tendency to do marking quotes by using apostrophes (single quotes) in pairs; that is, 'like this'. This is modelled
on string and character literal syntax in some programming languages (reinforced by the fact that many character-only
terminals display the apostrophe in typewriter style, as a vertical single quote).
One quirk that shows up frequently in the email style of Unix hackers in particular is a tendency for some things that are
normally all-lowercase (including usernames and the names of commands and C routines) to remain uncapitalized even
when they occur at the beginning of sentences. It is clear that, for many hackers, the case of such identifiers becomes a
part of their internal representation (the `spelling') and cannot be overridden without mental effort (an appropriate reflex
because Unix and C both distinguish cases and confusing them can lead to lossage). A way of escaping this dilemma is
simply to avoid using these constructions at the beginning of sentences.
There seems to be a meta-rule behind these nonstandard hackerisms to the effect that precision of expression is more
important than conformance to traditional rules; where the latter create ambiguity or lose information they can be
discarded without a second thought. It is notable in this respect that other hackish inventions (for example, in
vocabulary) also tend to carry very precise shades of meaning even when constructed to appear slangy and loose. In fact,
to a hacker, the contrast between `loose' form and `tight' content in jargon is a substantial part of its humor!
Hackers have also developed a number of punctuation and emphasis conventions adapted to single-font all-ASCII
communications links, and these are occasionally carried over into written documents even when normal means of font
changes, underlining, and the like are available.
One of these is that TEXT IN ALL CAPS IS INTERPRETED AS `LOUD', and this becomes such an ingrained
synesthetic reflex that a person who goes to caps-lock while in talk mode may be asked to "stop shouting, please, you're
hurting my ears!".
Also, it is common to use bracketing with unusual characters to signify emphasis. The asterisk is most common, as in
"What the *hell*?" even though this interferes with the common use of the asterisk suffix as a footnote mark. The
underscore is also common, suggesting underlining (this is particularly common with book titles; for example, "It is
often alleged that Joe Haldeman wrote _The_Forever_War_ as a rebuttal to Robert Heinlein's earlier novel of the future
military, _Starship_Troopers_."). Other forms exemplified by "=hell=", "\hell/", or "/hell/" are occasionally seen (it's
claimed that in the last example the first slash pushes the letters over to the right to make them italic, and the second
keeps them from falling over). On FidoNet, you might see #bright# and ^dark^ text, which was actually interpreted by
some reader software. Finally, words may also be emphasized L I K E T H I S, or by a series of carets (^) under them on
the next line of the text.
There is a semantic difference between *emphasis like this* (which emphasizes the phrase as a whole), and *emphasis*
*like* *this* (which suggests the writer speaking very slowly and distinctly, as if to a very young child or a mentally
impaired person). Bracketing a word with the `*' character may also indicate that the writer wishes readers to consider
that an action is taking place or that a sound is being made. Examples: *bang*, *hic*, *ring*, *grin*, *kick*, *stomp*,
*mumble*.
One might also see the above sound effects as <bang>, <hic>, <ring>, <grin>, <kick>, <stomp>, <mumble>. This use of
angle brackets to mark their contents originally derives from conventions used in BNF, but since about 1993 it has been
reinforced by the HTML markup used on the World Wide Web.
Angle-bracket enclosure is also used to indicate that a term stands for some random member of a larger class (this is
straight from BNF). Examples like the following are common:
So this <ethnic> walks into a bar one day...
There is also an accepted convention for `writing under erasure'; the text
Be nice to this fool^H^H^H^Hgentleman,
he's visiting from corporate HQ.
reads roughly as "Be nice to this fool, er, gentleman...", with irony emphasized. The digraph ^H is often used as a print
representation for a backspace, and was actually very visible on old-style printing terminals. As the text was being
composed the characters would be echoed and printed immediately, and when a correction was made the backspace
keystrokes would be echoed with the string '^H'. Of course, the final composed text would have no trace of the
backspace characters (or the original erroneous text).
Accidental writing under erasure occurs when using the Unix "talk" program to chat interactively to another user. On aPC-style keyboard most users instinctively press the backspace key to delete mistakes, but this may not achieve the
desired effect, and merely displays a ^H symbol. The user typically presses backspace a few times before their brain
realises the problem - especially likely if the user is a touch-typist - and since each character is transmitted as soon as it
is typed, Freudian slips and other inadvertant admissions are (barring network delays) clearly visible for the other user to
see.
Deliberate use of ^H for writing under erasure parallels (and may have been influenced by) the ironic use of `slashouts'
in science-fiction fanzines.
A related habit uses editor commands to signify corrections to previous text. This custom faded in email as more mailers
got good editing capabilities, only to take on new life on IRCs and other line-based chat systems.
charlie: I've seen that term used on alt.foobar often.
lisa: Send it to Erik for the File.
lisa: Oops...s/Erik/Eric/.
The s/Erik/Eric/ says "change Erik to Eric in the preceding". This syntax is borrowed from the Unix editing tools ed and
sed, but is widely recognized by non-Unix hackers as well.
In a formula, * signifies multiplication but two asterisks in a row are a shorthand for exponentiation (this derives from
FORTRAN, and is also used in Ada). Thus, one might write 2 ** 8 = 256.
Another notation for exponentiation one sees more frequently uses the caret (^, ASCII 1011110); one might write instead
2^8 = 256. This goes all the way back to Algol-60, which used the archaic ASCII `up-arrow' that later became the caret;
this was picked up by Kemeny and Kurtz's original BASIC, which in turn influenced the design of the bc(1) and dc(1)
Unix tools, which have probably done most to reinforce the convention on Usenet. (TeX math mode also uses ^ for
exponention.) The notation is mildly confusing to C programmers, because ^ means bitwise exclusive-or in C. Despite
this, it was favored 3:1 over ** in a late-1990 snapshot of Usenet. It is used consistently in this lexicon.
In on-line exchanges, hackers tend to use decimal forms or improper fractions (`3.5' or `7/2') rather than `typewriter
style' mixed fractions (`3-1/2'). The major motive here is probably that the former are more readable in a monospaced
font, together with a desire to avoid the risk that the latter might be read as `three minus one-half'. The decimal form is
definitely preferred for fractions with a terminating decimal representation; there may be some cultural influence here
from the high status of scientific notation.
Another on-line convention, used especially for very large or very small numbers, is taken from C (which derived it from
FORTRAN). This is a form of `scientific notation' using `e' to replace `*10^'; for example, one year is about 3e7 seconds
long.
The tilde (~) is commonly used in a quantifying sense of `approximately'; that is, ~50 means `about fifty'.
On Usenet and in the MUD world, common C boolean, logical, and relational operators such as |, &, ||, &&, !, ==, !=, >,
<, >=, and <= are often combined with English. The Pascal not-equals, <>, is also recognized, and occasionally one sees
/= for not-equals (from Ada, Common Lisp, and Fortran 90). The use of prefix `!' as a loose synonym for `not-' or `no-'
is particularly common; thus, `!clue' is read `no-clue' or `clueless'.
A related practice borrows syntax from preferred programming languages to express ideas in a natural-language text. For
example, one might see the following:
In <jrh578689@thudpucker.com> J. R. Hacker wrote:
>I recently had occasion to field-test the Snafu
>Systems 2300E adaptive gonkulator. The price was
>right, and the racing stripe on the case looked
>kind of neat, but its performance left something
>to be desired.
Yeah, I tried one out too.
#ifdef FLAME
Hasn't anyone told those idiots that you can't get
decent bogon suppression with AFJ filters at today's
net volumes?
#endif /* FLAME */
I guess they figured the price premium for true
frame-based semantic analysis was too high.
Unfortunately, it's also the only workable approach.I wouldn't recommend purchase of this product unless
you're on a *very* tight budget.
#include <disclaimer.h>
--
== Frank Foonly (Fubarco Systems)
In the above, the #ifdef/#endif pair is a conditional compilation syntax from C; here, it implies that the text between
(which is a flame) should be evaluated only if you have turned on (or defined on) the switch FLAME. The #include at
the end is C for "include standard disclaimer here"; the `standard disclaimer' is understood to read, roughly, "These are
my personal opinions and not to be construed as the official position of my employer."
The top section in the example, with > at the left margin, is an example of an inclusion convention we'll discuss below.
More recently, following on the huge popularity of the World Wide Web, pseudo-HTML markup has become popular
for similar purposes:
<flame>
Your father was a hamster and your mother smelt of elderberries!
</flame>
You'll even see this with an HTML-style modifier:
<flame intensity="100%">
You seem well-suited for a career in government.
</flame>
Another recent (late 1990s) construction now common on Usenet seems to be borrowed from Unix shell syntax or Perl.
It consists of using a dollar sign before an uppercased form of a word or acronym to suggest any random member of the
class indicated by the word. Thus: `$PHB' means "any random member of the class `Pointy-Haired Boss'".
Hackers also mix letters and numbers more freely than in mainstream usage. In particular, it is good hackish style to
write a digit sequence where you intend the reader to understand the text string that names that number in English. So,
hackers prefer to write `1970s' rather than `nineteen-seventies' or `1970's' (the latter looks like a possessive).
It should also be noted that hackers exhibit much less reluctance to use multiply-nested parentheses than is normal in
English. Part of this is almost certainly due to influence from LISP (which uses deeply nested parentheses (like this
(see?)) in its syntax a lot), but it has also been suggested that a more basic hacker trait of enjoying playing with
complexity and pushing systems to their limits is in operation.
Finally, it is worth mentioning that many studies of on-line communication have shown that electronic links have a
de-inhibiting effect on people. Deprived of the body-language cues through which emotional state is expressed, people
tend to forget everything about other parties except what is presented over that ASCII link. This has both good and bad
effects. A good one is that it encourages honesty and tends to break down hierarchical authority relationships; a bad one
is that it may encourage depersonalization and gratuitous rudeness. Perhaps in response to this, experienced netters often
display a sort of conscious formal politesse in their writing that has passed out of fashion in other spoken and written
media (for example, the phrase "Well said, sir!" is not uncommon).
Many introverted hackers who are next to inarticulate in person communicate with considerable fluency over the net,
perhaps precisely because they can forget on an unconscious level that they are dealing with people and thus don't feel
stressed and anxious as they would face to face.
Though it is considered gauche to publicly criticize posters for poor spelling or grammar, the network places a premium
on literacy and clarity of expression. It may well be that future historians of literature will see in it a revival of the great
tradition of personal letters as art.
Node:Email Quotes, Next:Hacker Speech Style, Previous:Hacker Writing Style, Up:TopEmail Quotes and Inclusion Conventions
One area where conventions for on-line writing are still in some flux is the marking of included material from earlier
messages -- what would be called `block quotations' in ordinary English. From the usual typographic convention
employed for these (smaller font at an extra indent), there derived a practice of included text being indented by one
ASCII TAB (0001001) character, which under Unix and many other environments gives the appearance of an 8-space
indent.
Early mail and netnews readers had no facility for including messages this way, so people had to paste in copy manually.
BSD Mail(1) was the first message agent to support inclusion, and early Usenetters emulated its style. But the TAB
character tended to push included text too far to the right (especially in multiply nested inclusions), leading to ugly
wraparounds. After a brief period of confusion (during which an inclusion leader consisting of three or four spaces
became established in EMACS and a few mailers), the use of leading > or > became standard, perhaps owing to its use
in ed(1) to display tabs (alternatively, it may derive from the > that some early Unix mailers used to quote lines starting
with "From" in text, so they wouldn't look like the beginnings of new message headers). Inclusions within inclusions
keep their > leaders, so the `nesting level' of a quotation is visually apparent.
The practice of including text from the parent article when posting a followup helped solve what had been a major
nuisance on Usenet: the fact that articles do not arrive at different sites in the same order. Careless posters used to post
articles that would begin with, or even consist entirely of, "No, that's wrong" or "I agree" or the like. It was hard to see
who was responding to what. Consequently, around 1984, new news-posting software evolved a facility to automatically
include the text of a previous article, marked with "> " or whatever the poster chose. The poster was expected to delete
all but the relevant lines. The result has been that, now, careless posters post articles containing the entire text of a
preceding article, followed only by "No, that's wrong" or "I agree".
Many people feel that this cure is worse than the original disease, and there soon appeared newsreader software designed
to let the reader skip over included text if desired. Today, some posting software rejects articles containing too high a
proportion of lines beginning with `>' -- but this too has led to undesirable workarounds, such as the deliberate inclusion
of zero-content filler lines which aren't quoted and thus pull the message below the rejection threshold.
Because the default mailers supplied with Unix and other operating systems haven't evolved as quickly as human usage,
the older conventions using a leading TAB or three or four spaces are still alive; however, >-inclusion is now clearly the
prevalent form in both netnews and mail.
Inclusion practice is still evolving, and disputes over the `correct' inclusion style occasionally lead to holy wars.
Most netters view an inclusion as a promise that comment on it will immediately follow. The preferred, conversational
style looks like this,
> relevant excerpt 1
response to excerpt
> relevant excerpt 2
response to excerpt
> relevant excerpt 3
response to excerpt
or for short messages like this:
> entire message
response to message
Thanks to poor design of some PC-based mail agents, one will occasionally see the entire quoted message after the
response, like this
response to message
> entire message
but this practice is strongly deprecated.
Though > remains the standard inclusion leader, | is occasionally used for extended quotations where original variations
in indentation are being retained (one mailer even combines these and uses |>). One also sees different styles of quoting
a number of authors in the same message: one (deprecated because it loses information) uses a leader of > for everyone,
another (the most common) is > > > > , > > > , etc. (or >>>> , >>>, etc., depending on line length and nesting depth)reflecting the original order of messages, and yet another is to use a different citation leader for each author, say > , : ,
| , } (preserving nesting so that the inclusion order of messages is still apparent, or tagging the inclusions with authors'
names). Yet another style is to use each poster's initials (or login name) as a citation leader for that poster.
Occasionally one sees a # leader used for quotations from authoritative sources such as standards documents; the
intended allusion is to the root prompt (the special Unix command prompt issued when one is running as the privileged
super-user).
Node:Hacker Speech Style, Next:International Style, Previous:Email Quotes, Up:Top
Hacker Speech Style
Hackish speech generally features extremely precise diction, careful word choice, a relatively large working vocabulary,
and relatively little use of contractions or street slang. Dry humor, irony, puns, and a mildly flippant attitude are highly
valued -- but an underlying seriousness and intelligence are essential. One should use just enough jargon to communicate
precisely and identify oneself as a member of the culture; overuse of jargon or a breathless, excessively gung-ho attitude
is considered tacky and the mark of a loser.
This speech style is a variety of the precisionist English normally spoken by scientists, design engineers, and academics
in technical fields. In contrast with the methods of jargon construction, it is fairly constant throughout hackerdom.
It has been observed that many hackers are confused by negative questions -- or, at least, that the people to whom they
are talking are often confused by the sense of their answers. The problem is that they have done so much programming
that distinguishes between
if (going) ...
and
if (!going) ...
that when they parse the question "Aren't you going?" it may seem to be asking the opposite question from "Are you
going?", and so to merit an answer in the opposite sense. This confuses English-speaking non-hackers because they were
taught to answer as though the negative part weren't there. In some other languages (including Russian, Chinese, and
Japanese) the hackish interpretation is standard and the problem wouldn't arise. Hackers often find themselves wishing
for a word like French `si', German `doch', or Dutch `jawel' - a word with which one could unambiguously answer `yes'
to a negative question. (See also mu)
For similar reasons, English-speaking hackers almost never use double negatives, even if they live in a region where
colloquial usage allows them. The thought of uttering something that logically ought to be an affirmative knowing it will
be misparsed as a negative tends to disturb them.
In a related vein, hackers sometimes make a game of answering questions containing logical connectives with a strictly
literal rather than colloquial interpretation. A non-hacker who is indelicate enough to ask a question like "So, are you
working on finding that bug now or leaving it until later?" is likely to get the perfectly correct answer "Yes!" (that is,
"Yes, I'm doing it either now or later, and you didn't ask which!").
Node:International Style, Next:Lamer-speak, Previous:Hacker Speech Style, Up:Top
International Style
Although the Jargon File remains primarily a lexicon of hacker usage in American English, we have made some effort to
get input from abroad. Though the hacker-speak of other languages often uses translations of jargon from English (often
as transmitted to them by earlier Jargon File versions!), the local variations are interesting, and knowledge of them may
be of some use to travelling hackers.
There are some references herein to `Commonwealth hackish'. These are intended to describe some variations in hacker
usage as reported in the English spoken in Great Britain and the Commonwealth (Canada, Australia, India, etc. -- though
Canada is heavily influenced by American usage). There is also an entry on Commonwealth Hackish reporting some
general phonetic and vocabulary differences from U.S. hackish.Hackers in Western Europe and (especially) Scandinavia report that they often use a mixture of English and their native
languages for technical conversation. Occasionally they develop idioms in their English usage that are influenced by
their native-language styles. Some of these are reported here.
On the other hand, English often gives rise to grammatical and vocabulary mutations in the native language. For
example, Italian hackers often use the nonexistent verbs `scrollare' (to scroll) and `deletare' (to delete) rather than native
Italian `scorrere' and `cancellare'. Similarly, the English verb `to hack' has been seen conjugated in Swedish. In German,
many Unix terms in English are casually declined as if they were German verbs - thus: mount/mounten/gemountet;
grep/grepen/gegrept; fork/forken/geforkt; core dump/core-dumpen, core-gedumpt. And Spanish-speaking hackers use
`linkear' (to link), `debugear' (to debug), and `lockear' (to lock).
European hackers report that this happens partly because the English terms make finer distinctions than are available in
their native vocabularies, and partly because deliberate language-crossing makes for amusing wordplay.
A few notes on hackish usages in Russian have been added where they are parallel with English idioms and thus
comprehensible to English-speakers.
Node:Lamer-speak, Next:Pronunciation Guide, Previous:International Style, Up:Top
Crackers, Phreaks, and Lamers
From the early 1980s onward, a flourishing culture of local, MS-DOS-based bulletin boards developed separately from
Internet hackerdom. The BBS culture has, as its seamy underside, a stratum of `pirate boards' inhabited by crackers,
phone phreaks, and warez d00dz. These people (mostly teenagers running IBM-PC clones from their bedrooms) have
developed their own characteristic jargon, heavily influenced by skateboard lingo and underground-rock slang.
Though crackers often call themselves `hackers', they aren't (they typically have neither significant programming ability,
nor Internet expertise, nor experience with UNIX or other true multi-user systems). Their vocabulary has little overlap
with hackerdom's. Nevertheless, this lexicon covers much of it so the reader will be able to understand what goes by on
bulletin-board systems.
Here is a brief guide to cracker and warez d00dz usage:
Misspell frequently. The substitutions
phone => fone
freak => phreak
are obligatory.
Always substitute `z's for `s's. (i.e. "codes" -> "codez"). The substitution of 'z' for 's' has evolved so that a 'z' is now
systematically put at the end of words to denote an illegal or cracking connection. Examples : Appz, passwordz,
passez, utilz, MP3z, distroz, pornz, sitez, gamez, crackz, serialz, downloadz, FTPz, etc.
Type random emphasis characters after a post line (i.e. "Hey Dudes!#!$#$!#!$").
Use the emphatic `k' prefix ("k-kool", "k-rad", "k-awesome") frequently.
Abbreviate compulsively ("I got lotsa warez w/ docs").
Substitute `0' for `o' ("r0dent", "l0zer").
TYPE ALL IN CAPS LOCK, SO IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE YELLING ALL THE TIME.
These traits are similar to those of B1FF, who originated as a parody of naive BBS users; also of his latter-day
equivalent Jeff K.. Occasionally, this sort of distortion may be used as heavy sarcasm by a real hacker, as in:
> I got X Windows running under Linux!
d00d!
u R an 31337 hax0r
The only practice resembling this in actual hacker usage is the substitution of a dollar sign of `s' in names of products or
service felt to be excessively expensive, e.g. Compu$erve, Micro$oft.
For further discussion of the pirate-board subculture, see lamer, elite, leech, poser, cracker, and especially warez
d00dz, banner site, ratio site, leech mode.Node:Pronunciation Guide, Next:Other Lexicon Conventions, Previous:Lamer-speak, Up:Top
How to Use the Lexicon
Pronunciation Guide
Pronunciation keys are provided in the jargon listings for all entries that are neither dictionary words pronounced as in
standard English nor obvious compounds thereof. Slashes bracket phonetic pronunciations, which are to be interpreted
using the following conventions:
1. Syllables are hyphen-separated, except that an accent or back-accent follows each accented syllable (the
back-accent marks a secondary accent in some words of four or more syllables). If no accent is given, the word is
pronounced with equal accentuation on all syllables (this is common for abbreviations).
2. Consonants are pronounced as in American English. The letter `g' is always hard (as in "got" rather than "giant");
`ch' is soft ("church" rather than "chemist"). The letter `j' is the sound that occurs twice in "judge". The letter `s' is
always as in "pass", never a z sound. The digraph `kh' is the guttural of "loch" or "l'chaim". The digraph 'gh' is the
aspirated g+h of "bughouse" or "ragheap" (rare in English).
3. Uppercase letters are pronounced as their English letter names; thus (for example) /H-L-L/ is equivalent to /aych
el el/. /Z/ may be pronounced /zee/ or /zed/ depending on your local dialect.
4. Vowels are represented as follows:
/a/
back, that
/ah/
father, palm (see note)
/ar/
far, mark
/aw/
flaw, caught
/ay/
bake, rain
/e/
less, men
/ee/
easy, ski
/eir/
their, software
/i/
trip, hit
/i:/
life, sky
/o/
block, stock (see note)
/oh/
flow, sew
/oo/
loot, through
/or/
more, door
/ow/
out, how
/oy/
boy, coin
/uh/
but, some
/u/
put, foot
/y/
yet, young/yoo/
few, chew
/[y]oo/
/oo/ with optional fronting as in `news' (/nooz/ or /nyooz/)
The glyph /*/ is used for the `schwa' sound of unstressed or occluded vowels (the one that is often written with an
upside-down `e'). The schwa vowel is omitted in syllables containing vocalic r, l, m or n; that is, `kitten' and `color'
would be rendered /kit'n/ and /kuhl'r/, not /kit'*n/ and /kuhl'*r/.
Note that the above table reflects mainly distinctions found in standard American English (that is, the neutral dialect
spoken by TV network announcers and typical of educated speech in the Upper Midwest, Chicago, Minneapolis/St. Paul
and Philadelphia). However, we separate /o/ from /ah/, which tend to merge in standard American. This may help readers
accustomed to accents resembling British Received Pronunciation.
The intent of this scheme is to permit as many readers as possible to map the pronunciations into their local dialect by
ignoring some subset of the distinctions we make. Speakers of British RP, for example, can smash terminal /r/ and all
unstressed vowels. Speakers of many varieties of southern American will automatically map /o/ to /aw/; and so forth.
(Standard American makes a good reference dialect for this purpose because it has crisp consonants and more vowel
distinctions than other major dialects, and tends to retain distinctions between unstressed vowels. It also happens to be
what your editor speaks.)
Entries with a pronunciation of `//' are written-only usages. (No, Unix weenies, this does not mean `pronounce like
previous pronunciation'!)
Node:Other Lexicon Conventions, Next:Format for New Entries, Previous:Pronunciation Guide, Up:Top
Other Lexicon Conventions
Entries are sorted in case-blind ASCII collation order (rather than the letter-by-letter order ignoring interword spacing
common in mainstream dictionaries), except that all entries beginning with nonalphabetic characters are sorted before A.
The case-blindness is a feature, not a bug.
The beginning of each entry is marked by a colon (:) at the left margin. This convention helps out tools like hypertext
browsers that benefit from knowing where entry boundaries are, but aren't as context-sensitive as humans.
In pure ASCII renderings of the Jargon File, you will see {} used to bracket words which themselves have entries in the
File. This isn't done all the time for every such word, but it is done everywhere that a reminder seems useful that the term
has a jargon meaning and one might wish to refer to its entry.
In this all-ASCII version, headwords for topic entries are distinguished from those for ordinary entries by being followed
by "::" rather than ":"; similarly, references are surrounded by "{{" and "}}" rather than "{" and "}".
Defining instances of terms and phrases appear in `slanted type'. A defining instance is one which occurs near to or as
part of an explanation of it.
Prefix ** is used as linguists do; to mark examples of incorrect usage.
We follow the `logical' quoting convention described in the Writing Style section above. In addition, we reserve double
quotes for actual excerpts of text or (sometimes invented) speech. Scare quotes (which mark a word being used in a
nonstandard way), and philosopher's quotes (which turn an utterance into the string of letters or words that name it) are
both rendered with single quotes.
References such as malloc(3) and patch(1) are to Unix facilities (some of which, such as patch(1), are actually open
source distributed over Usenet). The Unix manuals use foo(n) to refer to item foo in section (n) of the manual, where
n=1 is utilities, n=2 is system calls, n=3 is C library routines, n=6 is games, and n=8 (where present) is system
administration utilities. Sections 4, 5, and 7 of the manuals have changed roles frequently and in any case are not
referred to in any of the entries.
Various abbreviations used frequently in the lexicon are summarized here:abbrev.
abbreviation
adj.
adjective
adv.
adverb
alt.
alternate
cav.
caveat
conj.
conjunction
esp.
especially
excl.
exclamation
imp.
imperative
interj.
interjection
n.
noun
obs.
obsolete
pl.
plural
poss.
possibly
pref.
prefix
prob.
probably
prov.
proverbial
quant.
quantifier
suff.
suffix
syn.
synonym (or synonymous with)
v.
verb (may be transitive or intransitive)
var.
variant
vi.
intransitive verb
vt.
transitive verb
Where alternate spellings or pronunciations are given, alt. separates two possibilities with nearly equal distribution,
while var. prefixes one that is markedly less common than the primary.
Where a term can be attributed to a particular subculture or is known to have originated there, we have tried to so
indicate. Here is a list of abbreviations used in etymologies:
Amateur Packet Radio
A technical culture of ham-radio sites using AX.25 and TCP/IP for wide-area networking and BBS systems.
Berkeley
University of California at Berkeley
BBNBolt, Beranek & Newman
Cambridge
the university in England (not the city in Massachusetts where MIT happens to be located!)
CMU
Carnegie-Mellon University
Commodore
Commodore Business Machines
DEC
The Digital Equipment Corporation (now Compaq).
Fairchild
The Fairchild Instruments Palo Alto development group
FidoNet
See the FidoNet entry
IBM
International Business Machines
MIT
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; esp. the legendary MIT AI Lab culture of roughly 1971 to 1983 and its
feeder groups, including the Tech Model Railroad Club
NRL
Naval Research Laboratories
NYU
New York University
OED
The Oxford English Dictionary
Purdue
Purdue University
SAIL
Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (at Stanford University)
SI
From Systme International, the name for the standard conventions of metric nomenclature used in the sciences
Stanford
Stanford University
Sun
Sun Microsystems
TMRC
Some MITisms go back as far as the Tech Model Railroad Club (TMRC) at MIT c. 1960. Material marked TMRC
is from "An Abridged Dictionary of the TMRC Language", originally compiled by Pete Samson in 1959
UCLA
University of California at Los Angeles
UK
the United Kingdom (England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland)
Usenet
See the Usenet entry
WPI
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, site of a very active community of PDP-10 hackers during the 1970s
WWW
The World-Wide-Web.
XEROX PARC
XEROX's Palo Alto Research Center, site of much pioneering research in user interface design and networking
Yale
Yale University
Some other etymology abbreviations such as Unix and PDP-10 refer to technical cultures surrounding specific operating
systems, processors, or other environments. The fact that a term is labelled with any one of these abbreviations does not
necessarily mean its use is confined to that culture. In particular, many terms labelled `MIT' and `Stanford' are in quite
general use. We have tried to give some indication of the distribution of speakers in the usage notes; however, a number
of factors mentioned in the introduction conspire to make these indications less definite than might be desirable.A few new definitions attached to entries are marked [proposed]. These are usually generalizations suggested by editors
or Usenet respondents in the process of commenting on previous definitions of those entries. These are not represented
as established jargon.
Node:Format for New Entries, Next:The Jargon Lexicon, Previous:Other Lexicon Conventions, Up:Top
Format For New Entries
You can mail submissions for the Jargon File to jargon@snark.thyrsus.com.
We welcome new jargon, and corrections to or amplifications of existing entries. You can improve your submission's
chances of being included by adding background information on user population and years of currency. References to
actual usage via URLs and/or DejaNews pointers are particularly welcomed.
All contributions and suggestions about the Jargon File will be considered donations to be placed in the public domain as
part of this File, and may be used in subsequent paper editions. Submissions may be edited for accuracy, clarity and
concision.
We are looking to expand the File's range of technical specialties covered. There are doubtless rich veins of jargon yet
untapped in the scientific computing, graphics, and networking hacker communities; also in numerical analysis,
computer architectures and VLSI design, language design, and many other related fields. Send us your jargon!
We are not interested in straight technical terms explained by textbooks or technical dictionaries unless an entry
illuminates `underground' meanings or aspects not covered by official histories. We are also not interested in `joke'
entries -- there is a lot of humor in the file but it must flow naturally out of the explanations of what hackers do and how
they think.
It is OK to submit items of jargon you have originated if they have spread to the point of being used by people who are
not personally acquainted with you. We prefer items to be attested by independent submission from two different sites.
An HTML version of the File is available at http://www.tuxedo.org/jargon. Please send us URLs for materials related to
the entries, so we can enrich the File's link structure.
The Jargon File will be regularly maintained and made available for browsing on the World Wide Web, and will include
a version number. Read it, pass it around, contribute -- this is your monument!
Node:The Jargon Lexicon, Next:Appendix A, Previous:Format for New Entries, Up:Top
The Jargon Lexicon
= 0 =:
= A =:
= B =:
= C =:
= D =:
= E =:
= F =:
= G =:
= H =:
= I =:
= J =:
= K =:
= L =:
= M =:
= N =:
= O =:
= P =:
= Q =:= R =:
= S =:
= T =:
= U =:
= V =:
= W =:
= X =:
= Y =:
= Z =: